Today’s text and comments
highlight two subjects:
one, a very important event;
two, a very important quality.
The event is Armageddon.
The quality is obedience.
So let’s consider these questions:
What will take place before Armageddon?
How do we benefit now from being obedient?
What is the link
between Armageddon and obedience?
Let’s start with the subject of Armageddon.
What are some of the events
that are taking place
shortly before the start of Armageddon?
Now, as explained in the Pure Worship  book,
chapter 18,
after the destruction
of all false religious organizations,
we as God’s servants worldwide
may be used by Jehovah to proclaim
a final and hard-hitting judgment message.
That message may announce
that the political system is about to end.
Not surprisingly, the kings of the earth
will not take that kindly.
Ezekiel chapter 38
describes that these kings will attack us
in their role as Gog of Magog.
Now, since we as God’s people
live in many different countries,
these kings will need to work together
across national borders
in order to attack us all at the same time.
To do so, they have to combine,
or coalesce, their efforts.
And that is why in our current publications,
Gog of Magog is described as a combination,
or coalition, of nations.
Now, who among God’s people will be attacked
by Gog of Magog?
Will the remaining anointed Christians
still be on earth
and also be attacked?
The July issue
of The Watchtower  of 2015 stated this:
“Shortly before the remaining ones
of the 144,000
“are taken to heaven,
Gog will attack God’s people.”
Thus, according to this Watchtower,
the nations will attack us
while the anointed Christians
are still on earth.
Now, where does the Bible confirm
that statement?
At Ezekiel 38:16.
Speaking about Gog of Magog,
the prophecy states:
“Like clouds covering the land,
you will come against my people Israel.”
Now, as our publications have long explained,
Israel here refers to spiritual Israel.
So indeed, the remnant of spiritual Israel,
including the brothers on the Governing Body
at that time,
will be with us
when this coalition attacks us.
Now, having these faithful brothers
at our side
will certainly give us an added measure
of inner calmness and peace
that will help us
to get through the initial phase
of the attack
of that fierce coalition of nations.
But then at some point
during the attack by Gog of Magog,
Jesus will send out his angels
to gather all the remaining
spiritual Israelites worldwide
and they will be raised to heaven.
That event will mean
a big change for us on earth.
We will face our enemies
without the anointed brothers at our side.
Yet, even so,
according to Luke 21:28,
we will ‘stand up straight
and lift up our heads.’
Now, why will we not fear?
Because we know that the departure
of the anointed ones to heaven
indicates that our rescue is imminent.
Jesus and the angels
and the 144,000 brothers of Christ
will form the heavenly army
that comes to deliver us
from the coalition of nations.
Now, just think about the emotions
that the anointed ones will feel for us
as they come to our rescue.
Many of the anointed have developed
personal friendships with us.
They have served together with us
here at Bethel and in the congregations
where we had the privilege
of supporting them in various ways.
We can just imagine how happy they will be
when they follow Jesus to deliver us!
At that moment, they will have
both the authority and the power
to defend those on earth
who supported them so loyally
during their trials while they were on earth.
No wonder that our text for today
comes from a Watchtower  article
with the title
“Armageddon Is Good News!”
Yes, it is good news
for all those who serve Jehovah
in heaven and on earth.
Let us now consider our second subject,
the quality of obedience.
Recently, we received a letter
from the Personnel Committee
about the subject of obedience.
Speaking about the lessons
we have learned during the lockdown,
the letter stated:
“Perhaps the greatest thing we have learned
“is the importance of obedience.
“In this, you dear brothers and sisters
have set an outstanding example.”
That same warm commendation
applies to all faithful brothers
and sisters worldwide.
As God’s servants,
we are “obedient from the heart,”
as we read at Romans 6:17.
What does that mean?
We are obedient because we love Jehovah.
How have we benefited from the instructions
that we’ve received
from Jehovah’s organization?
A married couple in this country said,
“Following the directions we received gave us
peace of mind.”
A sister in the Philippines said,
“Being obedient gives me freeness of speech
when I teach my Bible students
and give advice to my friends.”
A brother in Peru said,
“I now feel better prepared to be obedient
to instructions yet to come.”
Well, you will agree that these expressions
reflect how we all feel
about the benefits of showing obedience.
Our obedience also influences
unbelieving family members.
Here’s an example.
A sister in the United States
has been serving Jehovah
for over 45 years.
But during all these years,
her husband did not show interest.
However, during the pandemic, he noticed
the loving care that the congregation
was showing to his family.
And out of appreciation,
the husband began to attend
the congregation Zoom  meetings.
There he often heard
announcements from Bethel
about taking safety measures
to avoid getting the virus,
and he could see how obeying that direction
safeguarded the congregation.
Then one day,
a non-Witness relative told him,
“Let’s go out together.”
The husband replied,
“I am doing nothing
until Bethel says we can go.”
Imagine how happy the sister was
when she heard her husband’s reply!
Her son said, “My dad is 83 years old,
but there is still hope for him.”
Now, our final question,
What is the link
between Armageddon and obedience?
Now, James 3:17 helps us to find the answer.
There we read
that we need to be “ready to obey.”
Now, the expression “ready to obey”
is a translation of a Greek word
that is mentioned only one time
in the entire New World Translation
here at James 3:17.
A person who is “ready to obey”
is quick to change his opinion
when he is presented with facts
that correct his thinking.
It is someone
who is known for his willingness
to get along with others.
Now, interestingly, in the first century,
the same Greek word was also used
in a military setting.
Bible scholars mentioned
that Flavius Josephus,
the Jewish historian,
used that same word to describe
obedient soldiers in the Roman army.
In fact, Josephus wrote
that one of the reasons
why the Roman army was so successful
was that the soldiers were well-trained,
ready to obey.
Now, how does that apply to us?
Well, of course, we do not use
literal weapons as soldiers do.
Still, there is a similarity
between those Roman soldiers in the past
and us today.
We too have to be well-trained
and ready to obey.
Why?
Because the obedience that we develop today
will help us to obey life-saving instructions
that we will receive
from God’s organization in the future.
When the nations attack us
and the war of Armageddon follows,
showing obedience will be our protection.
So, what were the main points
of our brief discussion?
Shortly before Armageddon,
we will face the attack
of a coalition of nations.
Today’s circumstances
allow us to train ourselves
in being obedient.
And as Armageddon comes closer,
we will be protected
as long as we are “ready to obey.”